---
layout: post
sidebar-align: left
title:  "Heroku"
date:   2015-05-17 12:32:53
categories: heroku nodejs app
author: Pere Pages
---

#### Contents
{:.no_toc}

* Will be replaced with the ToC, excluding the "Contents" header
{:toc}

## What is it?

>A platform as a service (PaaS) that enables developers to build and run applications entirely in the cloud.

## Deploy the app

I am going to create an app. I use my nickname as a namespace.

```bash
#create remote
heroku create pearpages-test-app
#deploy the code, same code for pushing changes
git push heroku master
```

## Run and instance and open it

```bash
heroku ps:scale web=1
heroku open
#view logs
heroku logs
```

## Define a Procfile

> Use a Procfile, a text file in the root directory of your application, to explicitly declare what command should be executed to start your app.

```bash
web: node index.js
```

> This declares a single process type, **web**, and the command needed to run it.

## Run the app locally

```bash
foreman start web
```

> Just like Heroku, Foreman examines the **Procfile** to determine what to run.

## Start a console

When the console starts, it has nothing loaded other than the *Nodee.js* standard library. From here you can ```require``` some of your application files.

```bash
heroku run node
```

## How to Create an Angular App Using Yeoman and Deploy It to Heroku

The point here is to tell heroku to run an static server. This is the key code to accomplish this:

```javascript
var gzippo = require('gzippo');
var express = require('express');
var morgan = require('morgan');
var app = express();

app.use(morgan('dev'));
app.use(gzippo.staticGzip("" + __dirname + "/dist"));
app.listen(process.env.PORT || 5000);
```

Read the follow post to understand it:

[How to Create an Angular App Using Yeoman and Deploy It to Heroku](http://awaxman11.github.io/blog/2014/07/13/how-to-create-an-angular-app-using-yeoman-and-deploy-it-to-heroku/)

## Github Integration

> Heroku integrates with GitHub to make it easy to deploy code living on GitHub to apps running on Heroku. When GitHub integration is configured for a Heroku app, Heroku can automatically build and release (if the build is successful) pushes to the specified GitHub repo. 

[Github Integration](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/github-integration)

## Learn more about Heroku

[How Heroku Works](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/how-heroku-works)

[Deploying Node.js Apps on Heroku](https://devcenter.heroku.com/articles/deploying-nodejs)

[Node.js on Heroku](https://devcenter.heroku.com/categories/nodejs)
